###Business Problem and Motivation

The general goal of this project is to assess bias and sentiment towards women versus men in sports. We’ve noticed a difference in how female athletes are described in the media, compared to male athletes. A recent example is the Canadian Women’s Soccer team receiving a significant funding cut, mere months before the Women’s Soccer World Cup. Keeping in mind, the women had just won Olympic Gold in 2020. In a 2015 study published in the American Sociological Review, authors describe a “Paper Ceiling” in news coverage of women, where women are written less about in the news compared to men. The study investigated why this was the case, but did not consider how the women were spoken about in the coverage. Another example is The New York Times describing Serena Williams’s playing style as aggressive and intimidating. This prompted online discussion around sexism/racism in sports and if a male tennis player would be described with similar words (for context, tennis is a very physically demanding sport that is intrinsically aggressive). This, along with other experiences has sparked our research into determining varying words/sentiments in sports media.


Representation in sports matters, and more young female athletes are encouraged to pursue professional sports in North America if they feel like they belong. By increasing positive media coverage of women’s sports, this will likely bring more viewers, and more revenue to these sports. Our research will also help dig further into why major women sports leagues like the WNBA are less popular compared to the NBA in North America. By assessing if sentiment in coverage is different, this may help change the way women’s sports leagues choose to market themselves.


